{{WikiProjectBannerShell|1=
{{WikiProject Sussex|class=start|importance=Mid|unref=}}
{{WikiProject Architecture|class=start|importance=mid}}
{{WPMILHIST
|class=start
<!-- B-Class checklist -->
<!-- 1. It is suitably referenced, and all 
major points are appropriately cited. -->
|B-Class-1=no
<!-- 2. It reasonably covers the topic, and 
does not contain major omissions or inaccuracies. -->
|B-Class-2=
<!-- 3. It has a defined structure, including 
a lead section and one or more sections of content. -->
|B-Class-3=
<!-- 4. It is free from major grammatical errors. -->
|B-Class-4=
<!-- 5. It contains appropriate supporting materials, 
such as an infobox, images, or diagrams. -->
|B-Class-5=no infobox, no plan or map
<!-- Task force tags -->
|British-task-force=yes
|Fortifications-task-force=yes
|Medieval-task-force=yes
|Technology-task-force=yes|Early-Modern-task-force=yes}}
}}

----

Okay, what's the problem? Zvesoulis put a <nowiki>{{cleanup}}</nowiki> tag on the article, but I've read the thing through several times and don't see a problem warranting the tag. Moreover, this is the very first entry in the talk page which strikes me as meaning we have a ways to go before we start throwing tags around. I removed the tag and made a couple of other edits. If anyone has any thoughts on what needs to be ''cleaned up'' please say something here and/or let me know. Thanks. [[User:Duckecho|Duckecho]] ([[User talk:Duckecho|Talk)]] 7 July 2005 19:52 (UTC)

The history section states that the castle was first built in 1068 and that it was built during Edward the Confessor's reign.  Which is correct?

== Ghosts ==

What about the 4 ghosts living in the castle? there should be some reference  <span style="font-size: smaller;" class="autosigned">—Preceding [[Wikipedia:Signatures|unsigned]] comment added by [[Special:Contributions/88.17.252.156|88.17.252.156]] ([[User talk:88.17.252.156|talk]]) 00:33, 8 March 2010 (UTC)</span><!-- Template:UnsignedIP --> <!--Autosigned by SineBot-->

== Automated peer review ==

<onlyinclude>{{#ifeq:{{{name}}}|Arundel Castle|[[User:MortimerCat|MortimerCat]] ([[User talk:MortimerCat|talk]]) 00:02, 14 April 2008 (UTC)}}</onlyinclude>The following suggestions were generated by a semi-automatic [[User:AndyZ/peerreviewer|javascript program]], and might not be applicable for the article in question.

*{{Done}}  Per [[Wikipedia:Only make links that are relevant to the context|Wikipedia:Context]] and [[Wikipedia:Manual of Style (dates and numbers)|Wikipedia:Manual of Style (dates)]], months and days of the week generally should not be linked. Years, decades, and centuries can be linked if they provide [[WP:CONTEXT|context]] for the article.<sup>[[User:AndyZ/G#contxt|[?]]]</sup>
*{{Not done}}  Per [[Wikipedia:What is a featured article?]], [[WP:IMAGE|Images]] should have concise captions.<sup>[[User:AndyZ/G#caption|[?]]]</sup>
*'''NA'''  You may wish to consider adding an appropriate [[WP:INFOBOX|infobox]] for this article, if one exists relating to the topic of the article. <sup>[[User:AndyZ/G#infobox|[?]]]</sup> (Note that there might not be an applicable infobox; remember that these suggestions are not generated manually)
*{{Done}}  As per [[Wikipedia:Manual of Style (dates and numbers)|Wikipedia:Manual of Style (dates)]], dates shouldn't use <sup>th</sup>; for example, instead of (if such appeared in the article) using ''[[January 30|January 30<sup>th</sup>]] was a great day'', use ''[[January 30]] was a great day''.<sup>[[User:AndyZ/G#dateth|[?]]]</sup>
*{{Done}}  Per [[Wikipedia:Manual of Style (headings)]], headings generally do not start with articles ('the', 'a(n)'). For example, if there was a section called ''<nowiki>==The Biography==</nowiki>'', it should be changed to ''<nowiki>==Biography==</nowiki>''.<sup>[[User:AndyZ/G#headingthe|[?]]]</sup>
*{{Not done}}  Watch for [[User:Tony1/How_to_satisfy_Criterion_2a#Redundancy|redundancies]] that make the article too wordy instead of being crisp and concise. (You may wish to try Tony1's [[User:Tony1/How to satisfy Criterion 1a: redundancy exercises|redundancy exercises]].)
**Vague terms of size often are unnecessary and redundant -  “some”, “a variety/number/majority of”, “several”, “a few”, “many”, “any”, and “all”. For example, “<font color="red"><s>All</s></font> pigs are pink, so we thought of <font color="red"><s>a number of</s></font> ways to turn them green.”
**“In <font color="red"><s>the year [of]</s></font> 1138”
*Please ensure that the article has gone through a thorough copyediting so that it exemplifies some of [[WP:WIAFA|Wikipedia's best work]]. See also [[User:Tony1/How to satisfy Criterion 1a]].<sup>[[User:AndyZ/G#copyedit|[?]]]</sup>

You may wish to browse through [[User:AndyZ/Suggestions]] for further ideas. Thanks, [[User:MortimerCat|MortimerCat]] ([[User talk:MortimerCat|talk]]) 00:02, 14 April 2008 (UTC)
